everal algorithms are used to create digital signatures. Most of these follow a simple method of using the private keys of a sender to sign the message digests. This is how the digital thumbprint is formed for the data to be sent. Please take note that it is the message digest that is signed and not the data. Therefore, the size of the signature is small. However, this is not the case with the digital signature algorithm. The procedure followed when using DSA is not as simple as using a private and public key at the start and end of the transmission, respectively. On the other hand, it generates two digital signatures by applying complex and unique mathematical functions, about which we will know in detail in the later parts of this article.
So, as it can be understood, DSA is used only to create the signatures. They cannot be used for the encryption of data. Due to this, it is not subjected to import and export restrictions, which is usually the case with RSA.
The DSA algorithm is standard for digital signature, which is based on the algebraic properties of discrete logarithm problem and modular exponentiations and is based on the public-key cryptosystems principal.
Digital signatures are work on the principle of two mutually authenticating cryptographic keys. Signatures are based on public/private key pairs. With a public-key algorithm like RSA, one can create a mathematically linked private key and public key. One can sign a digital message with his private key. A person can encrypt signature related data with the use of a private key. The private key should always be with a person who wants to create a digital signature. Both the public and the private key can always be derived from one another as they are related mathematically. 
Signer’s public key is the only way to decrypt this data. 
One can give the public key to anyone who needs verification of the signer’s signature. It is vital to keep private key secret as one can generate your signature on a document with the help of this. In this manner, the authentication digital signature is done. In a digital signature,
validly is only assured by public and private keys.